All right.
We're starting to write more more tests.
But up until now we've only worked with some seem simple components.
What if we want to work with something like a container that top dog dodgy SS We have all this map state
to props.
It's also a connected component.
How do we test with that let's give it a try.
I'm going to create a new file and call it app dog test.
J.S. and this app dot test the J.S. again we can just go through the motions and copy one of the last
tests.
Let's just do this.
And this time instead of counter button It's going to be app and again we won't receive any colors.
Let's just run this and see what happens.
No actually let me delete this as well.
Save.
All right.
I'm getting some errors.
It says expect to render app component which is over here.
But I'm getting an error saying that Invariant Violation cannot find store in either the context or
props of Connect app.
All right.
So let's just mock a store.
We can say cost mock store equals say an empty object for now or let's just do the robots of an empty
array.
Analysts do searcher or search field.
That is an empty string and we'll just pass this mock store
as the store prop
and homeboy.
I'm getting store.
Get state is not a function.
And that makes sense right.
If you remember our store isn't just an empty object or a dummy object.
I mean it is and Redux terms but it also came with all these other things that we didn't really think
about when we installed redux.
We had get state subscribe and all these other methods that came with it.
So that means we have to mock this entire list of store methods that redux comes up with.
And if redux updates and add something new in the future we're gonna have to update that as well.
And luckily for us there's tools that already do this for you.
For example there is a package called redux mock store that you can use to actually mock this store
and have these proper methods on it.
And that's an NPM package that we can install.
But I want to take a different route.
I want to take a route of simplicity because right now looking at this app dot J.S. file we're doing
a lot of things.
And I like simple test tests that test simple things.
And this app that J.S. is frankly a little bit complicated because we have this connect so it's technically
not even rendering the app it's rendering connect and then that is wrapped by app.
Let me show you what I mean.
If I go back to our app and open up our ReACT developer tools you might have to download this plugin.
If you don't have it already.
I see that my app is a provider and then a Connect app so this app what we're actually testing is this
connect component that is wrapping the app and only inside of it we have the app and then header search
box scroll and so on and so forth let's simplify this.
Why not just test our app instead of testing are connected component.
And this is what I'd like to do when I test things instead of trying to test a really complicated component
I ask myself Is this component as simple as it can be.
Is there better things that I can do with code to make it more testable which usually results in better
code overall
so looking at this this app component does two main things.
One it connects to the redux store through all this map say two props and map dispatched to props but
it also renders a ton of these things.
So let's separate this out.
I am going to create a new component file and call it Main Page digests so you can think of this as
the home page of our robo friends app
and now this main page.
We'll also have a test file.
So I'm going to move the app dot test out J.S. to actually be renamed to main page and put it into the
components folder.
All right.
Our tests are failing but that's because we have our names all off so let's go about this step by step
let's make app dot J.S. be worried about just connecting and receiving just receiving props from the
store and make our main page be concerned with rendering all this home page stuff.
So how can we do this.
Well the very first step is I'm going to copy the entire app digest file go to our main page.
Copy and paste it and right off the bat remove all the redux things because I don't need anything redux.
This is going to be a simple component that's not connected to a redux store.
So I'm going to remove the Kinect.
I'm going to remove any of the actions and just leave our components.
I'm going to remove the map state to props map dispatched to props and I'm going to rename this to Main
Page component.
And you don't have a CSX file for it or maybe we should move this app digest to our main page.
So for now I'm just going to create something quickly.
I'm going to say new file main page dot CSX.
And by the way you're starting to see why we might want to have a better folder structure than just
files files files.
We might want to have components and a component folder for each one of these components.
And I'm just going to copy and paste here and going back to our main page.
We now have this CSX.
We have the
constructor and I don't know why we have are count in here.
I don't think we need the count.
It's not using it at all.
So let's just remove that.
So we don't need a constructor
and in our main page again there's no constructor.
We have the component did mount because while we want to request robots and we have our regular render
but we also don't have our connect anymore we're just simply rendering our main page
right.
So we've removed this and made this into a simple app that still has the component did mount.
But that's just props that we received from the store.
All right so let's go into Abdul J.S. and now remove the app part because we don't really need that
anymore or we don't need the render part.
We just need the connected component.
So again in here now for our render all we really need to do is well remove all of this feels nice removing
stuff and making files smaller and all we need is the main page component to render right so we can
remove all these components imports and just import the main page component
again.
Another reason I love is everything is just so nice and simple to move components around.
But look what we've just done really really quickly.
Oh and we definitely don't need component.
Did mount because we're doing that in the main page.
So look how small that component just got.
How nice is that and now this app component just turned into a super simple container component and
this is an architectural decision that I really really like because we don't really need to even test
this.
Do we because all we're doing is just using the Connect function to grab the state and dispatch events
from our RE dock store.
So even writing tests for this although we could do it we're just simply testing the functionality of
redux and that's something that redux library already does.
It already has tests and people working to make sure that it works properly this component now becomes
something so simple that we might not even need to test and we've moved all our logic that we can test
to the main page component and that's something really important to think about to always try and make
your tests easy if they're not then perhaps there's something in your code that you can simplify you
can see how elegant of a solution this is the last thing we really want to do is just pass down these
props down to the main page to do that we can just use some D structuring or objects spread say this
dot props
let's save and actually haven't tested this go so make sure it still works let's run NPM start sure
there's something that we made I've missed let's close this all right we have your render method should
have a return statement and yep we need to actually return from this render statement that's silly of
us let's return
and we have a bit of an issue with the CSX and that is because it can't find the sycophant so that's
a simple fix we just go to the JA Well and do because the sycophant is in the containers we can just
simply do containers for now even though we probably want to move this around for now for demonstration
purposes that's fine everything is passing if I go back I see that there's a few other errors we have
the count of no and we're passing the count state in here in the header component but if you remember
our header component has the counter button that actually has its own state.
So looks like we're doing this for no reason.
So let's just remove that from the whereas it from the main page.
US so we can just remove that save go back.
All right.
Everything is working make sure our searching works.
Yeah everything is working.
Counties working.
If I open up my react developer tools.
No not redux.
We won't react we have the provider we have the connected app.
But check this out.
We now have the main page that we can test in this main page.
Now is more accessible for us using enzyme and just so let's write some tests here.
We're gonna go into the main page.
Got tests.
All right let's first change the name to main page which is what we're testing now.
And because I feel like we're gonna be doing this a lot and passing down some props there's a neat little
trick that we can do.
Let's say we're gonna have a lot wrapper and I'm going to remove this for now and we can use something
called before each again comes with just and other testing frameworks.
And this makes sure that it runs before each one of our tests.
Now in here we simply give it a function and inside of this function we can say what should run before
each one of our tests.
In our case we want to mock props and these mock props.
Well why are we gonna have we're gonna have the on request robots which if you remember let's close
this and close this.
So it's a little bit cleaner if you remember main page has the on request robots function so we can
just do the just function here which we've seen before with mocking.
So we're just saying that this is just a simple function.
Don't worry about actually doing the API call.
We'll say that robots is an empty array that search field is going to be an empty string and that is
pending we'll be set to false.
And then finally because we have this for each or before each we're going to say that the rapper is
going to equal the shallow
rendered main page in this main page again just like we did in our apt.
J.S. can just receive the props.
That is the mock props.
So this is going to receive all these properties just like we did in app Dodge.
Yes.
See that over here
all right so let's safe here.
I'm going to go back to running NPM test and we have a few hours because well that's not semicolon.
That's comma my arch nemesis the comma and we get an error saying that our test suites must contain
one test because we haven't written one yet.
We just wrote the before each.
Now let's start off with the basics.
The.
It renders main page without crashing and we'll say that well we can use our favorite test style snapshot
testing.
We can just say expect rapper because now we have access to this rapper that is shallow rendered because
before each is going to run before this test and I'll say to match the snapshot.
I love how easy this is let's save
and what did I mess up here.
Wow I am terrible writing commies.
All right.
There you go.
You must be just laughing at me right now with all the commas that I miss while I code.
But hey we're all human here we all make mistakes.
I don't think there's ever a perfect developer that doesn't make mistakes while coding if there are.
Well I'm very jealous of them.
All right let's test another thing.
Let's say that I wanted to make sure that it filters the robots correctly.
So I'll say it filters robots correctly and I'm just going to say that in here we expect the rapper
and hmm how do we do this.
If we go to main page our J.S.
we have filter robots in here.
But that's happening in the render function.
So let's just clean this up and say that we have the filter robots and this filter robots will receive
the robots and it's going to almost make it our narrow function
and we can just grab this
and just return
our filtered robots.
We're going to need the search fields here so I'm going to say this dot props dot search field to lowercase
and now within here we can just say that filter robots is coming from this dot filter robots.
Let's just make sure this runs I'm going to go back and run NPM start
and it looks like I made a mistake somewhere here.
We need to actually passed on the robot so let's just say it's going to receive the robots or we can
even do this up over here.
For now let's just leave it like that and make sure we have our naming correct here filter robots.
Go back.
All right.
It's still working.
So now that I've made this a little bit cleaner in our render function and let's just remove the search
field from here Jo how can I actually test this we can now just simply test this method on the main
page class well we can just now use the instance property that comes with enzyme.
And now this instance is gonna give us access to all the methods that main page has including filter
robots.
So let's say in our test I'm going to move this around.
I'm going to say dot filter robots.
It's going to run filter robots with let's say an empty array and we expect that to equal an empty array.
So let's save and run NPM start or NPM test
we have a fail test
and I made a mid a bit of a mistake here.
The expect should be around this entire thing.
We want to expect that the filter robots runs and we wanted to equal the empty array.
Let's save all right.
Everything is passing.
But let's test other cases because while this is most likely not going to be the case let's say that
this time around in this statement only even though we're getting the before each and we have access
to the wrapper this time around we want to have a special case where the mock props is going to have
a search field of A and in here we have a robot that is let's say I.D. 3 with a name of John and e mail
Wolf leave the user name out of it for now.
John at shemale dot com let's say this and create a new expect statement.
Now
and just for this test we're going to use a different wrapper.
So let's just say a wrapper with and I know this is not the cleanest but trying to illustrate a point
here so bear with me.
So let's do mock props to mock props too.
And this is gonna be wrapper too.
So let's save wrapper to save and it says filters robots correctly.
And you know what I just realized I think a better way for us to do filter robots for now at least is
we can forget about the props and we can just do this dot this dot props dot robots
so going back here we can now remove these arrays.
So just looks a little bit cleaner and let's make this test pass.
We get a bit of an error here because we need to do a concert rapper 2 because rapper is not defined.
Remember we have to define it and our tests pass because our search field is a and we only have robots
with John and John a G.M. dot com.
But if I change this to John o it fails because we expected to equal the actual robots with John and
for now we can just say that we expect this array to be returned and I'm going to remove the first one
let's save
Oh and I have extra array black brackets here.
Again this is good our tests are failing and we're working towards passing them.
All right.
And now we know that filters robots correctly is working.